README.md, before:

# veo-reporting

Spring Boot microservice for veo reports. At the time of writing, its project status is "prototype".

## Purpose

This is an external service that can create reports from data stored in a veo backend. It can be accessed via a RESTful API.

The service has a set of predefined reports which cannot be modified at runtime. The API can be used to return a list of those reports and execute them.

## Terminology

Report
: A report is an abstract output file that may contain data from an external veo instance. A report defines a set of parameters, such as a description, supported output types and target entity types the the report can be executed upon. See `org.veo.reporting.ReportConfiguration`. Report configurations are read from JSON files in the classpath. (see `src/main/resources/reports` directory).

Template
: A report defines a template that defines the structure of the output. It can have various text formats such as Markdown, CSV, or XML. A template can use placeholders that will be replaced with data from a veo instance when executed.

Template engine
: Currently, the templates will be evaluated by the [Freemarker template engine](https://freemarker.apache.org/). Though not planned, it is possible that other template engines will be integrated at a later time.

Output formats
: A report defines a set of supported output formats. There is a mechanism that tries to convert the intermediate template output (e.g. text/markdown) to the desired output format (e.g. text/html or application/pdf). See `org.veo.fileconverter.FileConverter`.

Dynamic data
: The data that is to be shown by the report is fetched from an external veo instance. A report defines, which data to fetch and under which key it can be referenced in the template. See `org.veo.reporting.ReportConfiguration.data`.

Authorization
: The reporting backend requires no authentication itself, however, the API that retrieves data from the veo backend requires that a JWT token is sent via the `Authorization` HTTP header.

## Configuration

There are some configuration parameters that can be set via the usual Spring Boot service configuration mechanisms.

`veo.reporting.veo_url`
: The URL of the veo backend, e.g. `https://veo.develop.verinice.com`

`veo.reporting.http_proxy_host`
: An optional proxy that is required to access `veo.reporting.veo_url`.

## API

There is a single REST controller (`org.veo.reporting.controllers.ReportController`) handling requests to the `/reports` URL namespace.

`/reports` (`GET`)
: returns a hash of all available report configurations, keyed by the report name which serves as the identifier

`/reports/{name}` (`POST`)
: can be used to create a report. It accepts a JSON object that specifies the target entities and the desired output type. See `org.veo.reporting.CreateReport`.

## Report developemt a.k.a. "demo mode"

As there is no report editor yet, there is a demo mode that can be enabled via a command line switch. In that mode, the files in `src/main/resources/templates` are observed for modification, in which case the `processing-activities` and `process-list` reports are generated and written into the `/tmp` folder.

Enable with `./gradlew bootRun --args="--spring.profiles.active=demo --veo.accesstoken=XXXX"` and use at your own risk.

See `org.veo.reporting.Demo`.

Commit message:

make target scope id for demo mode configurable
VEO-495

README.md, after:

# veo-reporting

Spring Boot microservice for veo reports. At the time of writing, its project status is "prototype".

## Purpose

This is an external service that can create reports from data stored in a veo backend. It can be accessed via a RESTful API.

The service has a set of predefined reports which cannot be modified at runtime. The API can be used to return a list of those reports and execute them.

## Terminology

Report
: A report is an abstract output file that may contain data from an external veo instance. A report defines a set of parameters, such as a description, supported output types and target entity types the the report can be executed upon. See `org.veo.reporting.ReportConfiguration`. Report configurations are read from JSON files in the classpath. (see `src/main/resources/reports` directory).

Template
: A report defines a template that defines the structure of the output. It can have various text formats such as Markdown, CSV, or XML. A template can use placeholders that will be replaced with data from a veo instance when executed.

Template engine
: Currently, the templates will be evaluated by the [Freemarker template engine](https://freemarker.apache.org/). Though not planned, it is possible that other template engines will be integrated at a later time.

Output formats
: A report defines a set of supported output formats. There is a mechanism that tries to convert the intermediate template output (e.g. text/markdown) to the desired output format (e.g. text/html or application/pdf). See `org.veo.fileconverter.FileConverter`.

Dynamic data
: The data that is to be shown by the report is fetched from an external veo instance. A report defines, which data to fetch and under which key it can be referenced in the template. See `org.veo.reporting.ReportConfiguration.data`.

Authorization
: The reporting backend requires no authentication itself, however, the API that retrieves data from the veo backend requires that a JWT token is sent via the `Authorization` HTTP header.

## Configuration

There are some configuration parameters that can be set via the usual Spring Boot service configuration mechanisms.

`veo.reporting.veo_url`
: The URL of the veo backend, e.g. `https://veo.develop.verinice.com`

`veo.reporting.http_proxy_host`
: An optional proxy that is required to access `veo.reporting.veo_url`.

## API

There is a single REST controller (`org.veo.reporting.controllers.ReportController`) handling requests to the `/reports` URL namespace.

`/reports` (`GET`)
: returns a hash of all available report configurations, keyed by the report name which serves as the identifier

`/reports/{name}` (`POST`)
: can be used to create a report. It accepts a JSON object that specifies the target entities and the desired output type. See `org.veo.reporting.CreateReport`.

## Report developemt a.k.a. "demo mode"

As there is no report editor yet, there is a demo mode that can be enabled via a command line switch. In that mode, the files in `src/main/resources/templates` are observed for modification, in which case the `processing-activities` and `process-list` reports are generated and written into the `/tmp` folder.

You need to specify the UUID of the scope that should be used for testing. You can extract the UUID from the browser URL on the scope's edit page.

Enable with `./gradlew bootRun --args="--spring.profiles.active=demo --veo.accesstoken=XXXX --veo.demoscopeid=9f6f0199-7a14-4a1d-8345-80a0c1b60519"` and use at your own risk.

See `org.veo.reporting.Demo`.
